---
layout: post
title: Punetech
date: '2009-03-06 05:05:42'
---

<p><a href="http://punetech.com">Punetech</a> is a blog started by highly experienced fellow technology enthu, Navin Kabra and he is being supported by excellent team like Amit Paranjape, Manas and others.  It is a must read blog for all start entrepreneurs, geeks and not just in Pune but every where.

<strong>10 Things I like about Punetech -</strong>
</p><ul><li>Clear, concise, to the point.</li>
	<li>Started by a person who has been there done that. Not by some one who doesnt have expertise in commenting on startup things.</li>
	<li>Very vibrant offline presence.</li>
	<li>Helping in organizing events, meets in Pune.</li>
	<li>Leadership in taking up responsibilities for startup community with features Ask Punetech and other features like Wiki, Event schedule.</li>
	<li>Great coverage, live and review, of various events.</li>
	<li>Of the people, for the people by the people!</li>
	<li>I am always skeptical about organizations which are not for profit. Punetech is one of the very few organizations, and I call them organization not just a blog, which has maintained quality despite being not for profit.</li>
	<li>Most often a tech blog tend to get to focused on Web 2.0 stuff and forget rest of the things. Punetech does not lose focus like them. If you read there articles ranging from GNU to Supply chain management to twitter you get the entire range of technology happenings.</li>
	<li>Focus is on content and helping startup scene in Pune (in fact in India) and not on traffic. So stories, content on Punetech is much better than other startup blogs out there.</li>
	<li>This is 11th point but what the heck. If you compare startup activities in Pune 2 years back and today, you will see definite contribution by Punetech and various forums that Punetech supports like Pune Open Coffee Club.</li>
</ul><div>Happy birthday Punetech! You are a rockstar!!</div>