---
layout: post
title: Love
date: '2013-11-04 05:16:57'
---

<p>It was thunderstorm outside as he held her hand. May be it was just clouds surrounding his heart. And suddenly her grip went a little loose. He knew she is gone. She would have never let go of his hand if she wasn&rsquo;t. Even death could not take away the twinkle in her eyes as she looked at him the way she saw him first time they met. He sat there for hours, just looking at her, holding her hand, not ready to let her go.</p>
<p><span></span></p>
<p><span>As he came back from her funeral, the only thought is he had in his mind was of that magical first date. The rare flower they found and planted a seed of it near her home. And year 10 years they were together, everyday they watered it. Saw the sunset seating next to it, holding hands. That was all she ever wanted. And thats all he wants now. To seat, watch subset holding her hand, next to that rare flower.</span></p>

<p>It has been four years. And everyday he woke up with a knot in his heart. Even in this faraway land. And he kept thinking of that flower and that first date every day. And that&rsquo;s what he was thinking about when he took a wrong turn and went off to a strange road. And there he saw a garden full of blossoming flowers. The same rare flowers. And he thought, may be the seed they planted together is responsible for this garden. It was their love which may have created such wonderful gardens in faraway lands without even knowing. As he sat on bench, knot loosened and he cried for the first time since she was gone.</p>